**Which one among the following functionalities does not belong to the OSI Physical (PHY) layer? <br>
a) Frame synchronization <br>
b) Waveform selection <br>
c) Signal detection <br>
d) Power control<br>**
Ans – A: frame synchronisation is not a physical aspect of the system.<br>
Waveform, signal and power are all physcial components controlled by Layer 1.<br>

**Which one among the following options, would likely be most suitable to comply with the requirements of enhanced Mobile Broadband systems? <br>
a) Spatial multiplexing & coding rate of 1/3 <br>
b) Spatial diversity & coding rate of 1/3 <br>
c) Spatial multiplexing & coding rate of 2/3 <br>
d) Spatial diversity & coding rate of 2/3<br>**
Ans – C: spatial multiplexing and a coding rate of 2/3<br>
Mobile broadbands are designed to reach a large number of users.<br>
Spatial multiplexing can be used to allow the signal to reach this.<br>
Using a coding rate of 2/3 means that 2/3 of the bits being transmitted are real, non-redundancy signals which helps to ensure that the network can support the amount of users.<br>

**Which one among the statements about schedulers is incorrect? <br>
a) Proportional Fair is the de-facto choice in modern cellular networks <br>
b) Maximum C/I is well suited for high throughput services <br>
c) Proportional fair is not in use in Wi-Fi systems <br>
d) The scheduling used by Wi-Fi is based upon the same principle as the scheduling used by cellular systems<br>**
Ans – D: the scheduling used by WiFi is NOT based upon the same principles as the scheduling used by cellular systems.<br>
Cellular systems are designed to be nomadic, allowing the user to connect from different station to different station.<br>
Wifi is infrastructure based and the user is connected only when in the range of the wifi station.<br>

**Which of the following options is helpful in increasing a link reliability? <br>
a) Using a higher order modulation <br>
b) Using a lower coding rate <br>
c) Increasing the spatial multiplexing gain <br>
d) None of the above<br>**
Ans – B: using a lower coding rate.<br>
Higher order modulation packs in more bits per symbol but requires a higher SNR to be reliable.<br>
Reducing the coding rate means that more redundancy bits are included in the transmission. This increases the systems ability to resist impairments.<br>
Spatial multiplexing (MIMO) sends multiple data streams to increase the data rate but makes the link less reliable as it reduces the diversity gain.<br> If reliability is the goal, spatial diversity is preferable to spatial multiplexing.<br>

**Why is Dispersion Compensating Fibre only required for intensity modulated direct detection systems? <br>
a) Because coherent systems do not suffer from inter symbol interference <br>
b) Because coherent systems make use of higher order modulations that do not suffer from dispersion <br>
c) Because intensity modulated systems tend to transmit at higher baud rate, since they use lower order modulations. <br>
d) Because coherent system can make use of the additional phase information of the signal to compensate for dispersion digitally<br>**
Ans – D: coherent systems can make use of the additional phase information of the signal to compensate for dispersion digitally.<br>
Coherent systems and cognitive radio are not the same thing. Cognitive radio is the one with the meters and knobs that has the ability to adapt its knobs to its environment.<br>
Coherent systems use a reference signal/local oscillator to detect amplitude and phase of the received signal, but it is not adaptive.<br>
Coherent systems still experience inter symbol interference.<br>
Coherent systems do use higher order modulations but higher order modulations still suffer from dispersion.<br>
Baud rate differences have no impact on the need for dispersion compensating fibre.<br>

**Which of the following is _not_ a reason why broadband based on fibre is better than broadband based on copper? <br>
a) Because the speed of light in fibre is higher than the speed of an electric current in copper <br>
b) Because fibre has higher transmission bandwidth <br>
c) Because fibre has higher signal to noise ratio <br>
d) Because fibre has lower transmission loss <br>**
Ans – A: the speed of light in fibre does NOT have a higher speed than an electric current in copper.<br>
Optical fibre is still used instead of copper because the fibre has a higher transmission bandwidth, a higher signal-to-noise ration and a lower transmission loss

