**Which one among the following functionalities does not belong to the OSI Data Link layer?<br>
a) Medium access <br>
b) Routing <br>
c) Error control<br> 
d) Frame synchronisation<br>**
Ans: B – Routing, done at layer 3<br>

**Which one among the following effects is modelled in the time-selective fading component of a wireless channel model? <br>
a) Distance between transmitter and receiver <br>
b) A hill preventing line of sight between transmitter and receiver <br>
c) Sparks in passing cars <br>
d) User mobility<br>**
Ans: D – user mobility causes fading.<br>
Distance between transmitter and receiver causes path loss<br>
A hill in the line of sight causes shadowing<br>
Sparks in passing cars causes interference<br>
User mobility causes fading<br>

**In the Kendall’s notation a/b/m/K, what does ‘K’ indicate? <br>
a) Service time distribution <br>
b) Number of servers <br>
c) Maximum number of customers allowed<br> 
d) Type of arrival process<br>**
Ans – C: Maximum number of customers allowed<br>
Kendall's notation is used for denoting the parameters of a queuing system<br>
In Kendall's notation:<br>
a: the type of arrival process the queuing system uses<br>
b: the service time distribution, how the customers in the service and queue are processed<br>
m: the number of servers available to serve the customers in the queuing process<br>
K: the maximum number of customer's allowed in the queueing process<br>

**Which one among the following options, _cannot_ be considered a ‘meter’ for a cognitive radio system? <br>
a) Transmitted power <br>
b) Interference level <br>
c) Signal-to-noise ratio <br>
d) Bit error rate<br>**
Ans: D – bit error rate<br>
Meters in cognitive radio is what the system is capable of sensing, allowing it to perceive its environment<br>
Transmitted power can be perceived by the cognitive radio<br>
The level of interference is able to be perceived by the cognitive radio<br>
The SNR is able to be perceived by the cognitive radio<br>
The bit error rate is just a byproduct of transmission and cannot be considered a meter.<br>
Knobs in a cognitive radio are the elements that the cognitive radio is able to control, whereas meters are the cognitive radio's measure of its surroundings<br>

**If a transmission system suffers from nonlinear impairments, which of the following actions would you take to improve performance?<br> 
a) Increase transmission power <br>
b) Decrease transmission power <br>
c) Use dispersion shifted fibre <br>
d) Use multi-mode fibre<br>**
Ans: B – decrease transmission power.<br>
Nonlinear impairments are the result of increasing transmission power to the system, even if dispersion is not present in the system.<br>
To mitigate this, decrease the transmission power<br>

**Which of the following statements is _false_ for a chain of amplifiers? <br>
a) For the same span length, reducing the number of amplifiers increases the OSNR <br>
b) For the same overall distance a shorter span length gives a higher OSNR <br>
c) A system with amplifiers with lower noise figures has higher OSNR <br>
d) A system with a larger number of channels has a higher OSNR <br>**
Ans: D – a system with a larger number of channels has a higher OSNR.<br>
This is false.<br>
The total optical power is spread across more channels, which means less power per channel. It can also introduce cross-channel impairments like four wave mixing.<br>
The same span length with less amplifiers, each amplifier will span a longer distance but introduces less noise into the system, which increases (positive) the OSNR.<br>
Shortening the span length means that amplifiers to not have as much distance to amplify. This results in less amplified spontaneous emission per span, which positively increases the OSNR.<br>
Amplifiers carry noise, so amplifiers with a lower noise figure will raise the OSNR.<br>

**Which of the following statements is _false_ with respect to broadband access networks? <br>
a) Shortening the copper link length provides higher data rate <br>
b) Doubling the bandwidth has the same effect as doubling the signal to noise ratio. 
c) Typically higher capacity copper transmission technology uses higher bandwidth <br>
d) Vectoring can double the capacity of a copper transmission system <br>**
Ans – B: Doubling the bandwidth has the same effect as doubling the SNR.<br>
The bandwidth is directly proportional to the capacity and the SNR is logarithmically proportional to the capacity

