**In a single server system, arrivals can be modelled as a Poisson process with rate of 3 min-1 and the service times are exponentially distributed with mean 15 s.\
Give the Kendall’s notation, justifying your choice.\
Calculate the average number of customers in the system.\
Calculate the average delay and the average waiting time.\
Calculate the average number of customers in the queue.\
What happens to the average number of customers in the system, if service times are exponentially distributed with mean 20 s? Why?**

Arrival rate = 3 customers per minute\
Arrival rate = 0.05 customers per second (λ)\
Service time = 15 seconds to serve a customer\
(μ) number of customers served per unit time. 1/15 customers can be served in 1 second.

Traffic Intensity (λ/μ):\
0.05 / (1/15) = ¾ (p)

Average number of customers in the system (p/1-p):\
0.75 / 0.25 = 3 customers(L)

Average delay (time spent in the entire system) (L/λ):\
3/0.05 = 60 seconds

Average number of customers in the queue (p2/1-p):\
0.752 / 0.25 = 2.25 customers(Lq)

Average waiting time (time spent in the queue) (Lq/λ):\
2.25 / 0.05 = 45 seconds

Increase Service time to 20s\
1/20 customers can be served in 1 second.\
0.05 / (1/20) = 1 traffic intensity\
When the traffic intensity is 1, the system is at full utilization, the average number of customers in the system (1 / 1-1) becomes undefined and tends to infinity.\
The system becomes unstable, the average number of customers grows without bound.\
The service cannot keep up with the arrivals and the queue builds indefinitely.

Kendall's notation:\
a: the type of arrival process \
b: service time distribution\
m: number of servers\
K: maximum number of customers allowed in the system

a: M, arrivals are modelled according to a Poisson process of rate λ=3. This process can be modelled as a Markov chain such that the arrival of a new customer is memoryless and not dependent on how customers were previously received. The Markov chain changes from one state to another at the receipt of lambda, and changes back to the former state at the receipt of mew. In the case of arrivals, lambda is the parameter which changes the Markov chain\
b: M, service time is modelled exponentially which can also be modelled as a Markov chain. the servicing of a customer is memoryless and not dependent on how customers were previously served. The Markov chain changes from one state to another at the receipt of lambda, and changes back to the former state at the receipt of mew. In the case of service time distribution, mew is the parameter which changes the Markov chain\
m: 1, we are explicitly told that this is a single-server system\
K: irrelevant, there is no limit on the amount of customers allowed in the system. There is a potentially infinite amount of customers waiting to be served

**In a certain system the arrivals, which can be modelled as a Poisson process, occur at a rate of one every 100 ms, and the service times are exponentially distributed with mean 2 s. \
Also, there is no limit in the number of servers available.\
Give the Kendall’s notation, justifying your choice.**

a=  M\
b=  M\
m=  ∞\
K = ∞\
This is a M/M/∞ queue.

The Poisson process and exponential distributions can both be modelled as a Markov chain. The arrival of a new customer and the servicing of a new customer are both memoryless and not dependent on how previous customers arrived/were served. The Markov chain changes from one state to a new state in receipt of an arrival λ and changes back to the previous state in receipt of a service μ.

As there is no limit to the number of servers available, there is theoretically no limit to the number of customers which can be served by the M/M/∞ queue

**Calculate the average number of customers in the system.**\
Arrivals: one customer arrives every 100ms, 1/100 customers arrive every ms, 10 customers arrive every second\
Service: one customer is serviced every 2 seconds, ½ customers is served every second\
P = 10/(1/2) = 20\
Because the number of servers is theoretically infinite, the average number of customers in the system is simply equal to the traffic intensity.

**Calculate the average delay per customer.**\
The average system-wide delay per customer is simply the service time of 2 seconds

**Calculate the average queuing delay. What do you notice? Why it is so?**\
The average queuing delay is 0. As there is a theoretically infinite number of servers, no process should have to wait in the queue.
