**In a single server system, arrivals can be modelled as a Poisson
process with rate of 2 min-1 and the service times are exponentially
distributed with mean 20 s.\
• Give the Kendall’s notation, motivating your choice.**

M/M/1\
a: Arrivals which can be modelled as a Poisson process are considered Markovian arrivals (M)\
b: Service time distributions which are exponential are also considered Markovian (M)\
These arrivals and services are called M because the resulting queue can be modelled as a Markov chain. When a arrival is made into the queue, the Markov chain progresses into the next state. When a customer is processed by the service, the Markov chain regresses back into the former state.\
m: It is explicitly stated in the question that there is 1 server\
K: Irrelevant, there are no limits to who can be in the queue

**• Calculate the average number of customers in the system.**\
2 customer is arriving into the system every minute λ\
1 customer is serviced every 20 seconds. \
3 customers are serviced every minute. µ

The system utilisation is λ/µ\
p  = 2/3 = 0.6666667 seconds\
The average number of users in the system\
L = p/(1-p) = (2/3)/(1/3) = 2

**• Calculate the average delay and the average waiting time.**\
The average delay is the time spent in the entire system, from queue to the point where servicing is finished.\
The average system delay can be modelled by Little's law which is 1/λ-µ or L/λ

L/λ = 2 / 2 = 1 second

The average waiting time is the time spent in the queue.\
Taking the average number of customers in the queue and dividing this by λ gives the average time spent in the queue.
1.33333333333 / 2 = 0.666666666665 seconds

**• Calculate the average number of customers in the queue.**\
p2/(1-p) =  (2/3)2/(1/3)=  1.33333333333 customers

**• What happens to the average number of customers in the system, if
service times are exponentially distributed with mean 30 s? Why?**\
With a service time distribution of 30 seconds, 2 customers are being serviced every minute.\
This makes the utilisation of the system 2/2 = 1 \
The system is then running at full utilisation\
This means that the queue can grow to infinity.


**In a certain system the arrivals, which can be modelled as a Poisson
process, occur at a rate of one every 50 ms, and the service times are
exponentially distributed with mean 3 s. Also, there is no limit in the
number of servers available.\
• Give the Kendall’s notation, motivating your choice.**

M/M/∞\
a: Arrivals which can be modelled as a Poisson process are considered Markovian arrivals (M)\
b: Service time distributions which are exponential are also considered Markovian (M)\
These arrivals and services are called M because the resulting queue can be modelled as a Markov chain. When a arrival is made into the queue, the Markov chain progresses into the next state. When a customer is processed by the service, the Markov chain regresses back into the former state.\
m: ∞, it is explicitly stated that the number of servers could be infinite\
K: Irrelevant, there should not be any need for a queue if there is an infinite number of servers

One customer arrives into the system every 50ms\
1/50 customers arrive into the system every ms\
20 customers arrive into the system every second λ\
One customer is serviced every 3 seconds.\
1/3 customers are serviced every second µ

The utilisation of the system is λ/µ\
20 / (1/3) = 60

**• Calculate the average number of customers in the system.**\
For a system where the number of servers is infinite, the average number of customers in the system is simply equal to the utililsation formula.\
Therefore there is an average of 60 customers in the system

**• Calculate the average delay per customer.**\
In a system where the number of servers is infinite, the average system delay is simply equal to the service time. 
The average delay per customer is 3 seconds.

**• Calculate the average queuing delay. What do you notice? Why it is so?**\
There is no queuing delay in a system where there is an infinite number of servers.\
Each new arrival can simply access a different server if some other server is occupied.
