Q.6<br>
**A Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM) transmission system with 40 channels needs to operate over a 1,000 km distance.<br> Amplifiers have 15 dBm of power and noise figure of 6 dB, while the fibre has a nominal attenuation of 0.2 dB/km.<br> The distance between amplifiers is 50 km. The signals all transmit at 33 Gbaud (occupying a 37GHz bandwidth). <br>Also consider that a margin of at least 4 dB is required. <br>**

**(a) What is the maximum useful data rate of your system, considering all channels, if the required OSNR for 16QAM, 32 QAM and 64 QAM modulations are, respectively, of 18, 23 and 28 dB?<br> Notice that these rates can only be achieved using error correction codes, which have an overhead of 9% (i.e., they use 9% of the channel capacity).<br>**
Loss per span = 0.2db/km * 50 = 10dB<br>
Loss including network margins = 10 + 4 = 14dB<br>
This is the gain of the amplifier as it is required to account for this loss<br>

Number of Amplifiers = 1000/50 = 20 <br>

OSNR = Power - NF - G - 10log10(numberChannels) - 10log10(numberAmplifiers) + 58 - M<br>
OSNR = 15 - 6 - 14 - 10log10(40) - 10log10(20) + 58 - 4 = 19.969dB ~ 20dB<br>

Only 16QAM can be used under these OSNR requirements<br>
16QAM encodes 4 bits per symbol<br>
33Gbaud per channel * 4 = 132Gbps per channel<br>
Error correction codes have an overhead of 9% of channel capacity<br>
132 * 9% = 11.88 <br>
132 - 11.88 = 120.12 Gbps<br>

120.12Gbps * 40 channels = 4804.8Gbps<br>
Maximum useful data rate of the system is 4.8Tb/s<br>

**(b) What is the chromatic dispersion of each channel if the average dispersion coefficient of the fibre is 17 ps/nm/km (assume the following conversion ratio: 100 GHz = 0.8 nm)? <br>If the transmissions were carried out using direct detection receivers and the transmitters worked at the same Baud rate described above (i.e., 33Gbaud), how much dispersion compensating fibre (DCF) would be required at each amplifier location to compensate for dispersion?<br> Assume the DCF has coefficient of -150 ps/km/nm.<br>**

Fibre dispersion is 17ps/nm/km<br>
Per span (with a span being 50km as stated in the question)<br>
17*50 = 850ps/nm<br>

DCF is -150ps/km/nm<br>
850/150 = 5.6667 km per span<br>
