Q.4 
**A transmission system uses 30 channels to operate Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM) over 600 km distance.<br>
Amplifiers have 15 dBm of power and noise figure of 6 dB.<br>
Amplifiers gain can be set in Automatic Gain Control (AGC) mode and set to a gain between 8 and 22 dB. <br>
The fibre loss is 0.3 dB/km and you require margins of 4 dB. <br>
The baud rate of each channel is 60 GBaud and the spectral width 70 GHz.<br>**

Given:<br>
	• 30 WDM channels - sending over the fibre<br>
	• 600km total distance for the signal to travel<br>
	• Amplifier spacing - 60km apart from each other<br>
	• Amplifier power - 15 dBm<br>
	• Amplifier noise  - 6dB<br>
	• Amplifier gain range - 8-22dB<br>
	• Amplifier spacing - 60km apart<br>
	• Fiber loss - 0.3dB/km = 0.3*600 = 180.0 total<br>
	• Required network safety margin - 4dB<br>
	• Baud rate per channel - 60GBaud<br>
	• Spectral width/channel spacing bandwidth - 70GHz<br>
	• 16QAM & 18dB OSNR<br>
	• 32QAM & 23dB OSNR<br>
	• 64QAM & 28dB OSNR<br>

**a) If the amplifier spacing is 60 km, calculate: - what is the gain you should set you r amplifiers at. - what is the maximum capacity your system can achieve, considering all WDM channels. Consider the following possible modulation formats: 16QAM, 32 QAM and 64 QAM, which require, respectively, 18, 23 and 28 dB OSNR. <br>**

**What is the gain you should set your amplifiers at?**

	1. Calculate the loss in each span (each segment without amplification)
	60km span length * 0.3dB/km fibre loss = 60*0.3 = 18.0 dB
	
	2. Account for the required network margins
	18+4 = 22 dB
	
	3. Choose an amplifier gain (options: 8-22dB)
	Automatic Gain Control (AGC) must match the loss + margin.
	Therefore choose the amplifier gain of 22dB to breakeven.
	G = 22dB
	
**What is the maximum capacity your system can achieve considering all WDM channels**

	1. Calculate the OSNR 
    OSNR = PowerTotal − NoiseFigure − Gain − 10log_10(NumberOfChannels) − 10log_10(Number of Amplifiers) + 58 − Margins

Power = given = 15dBm<br>
Noise Figure = given = 6dB<br>
Number of Channels = given = 30<br>
Margin = given = 4dB<br>
Gain = 22dB<br>
600km total distance to travel/60km spacing between amplifiers = 10 amplifiers are used<br>

OSNR = 15 - 6 - 22 - 10log10(30) - 10log10(10) + 58 = 20.2dB<br>
OSNR requirements for different modulations:<br>
16QAM	 =< 18dB<br>
32QAM	=< 23dB<br>
64QAM	=< 28dB<br>
This means that only 16QAM can be used to increase the capacity of the system. The OSNR requirements are not met for the others.<br>

16QAM - encodes two bits per symbol:<br>
	• Bits per symbol = 4<br>
	• Baud rate per channel - 60GBaud<br>
	• Spectral width/channel spacing bandwidth - 70GHz<br>
Per channel data rate:<br>
	60GBaud * 4 = 240Gbps<br>
Total capacity, all channels:<br>
	240Gbps * 30 = 7200Gbps<br>
	
Total system capacity: 7200Gb/s = 7.2Tb/s

**b) Assume you need to compensate dispersion by using dispersion compensating fibre (DCF). <br>
 If the dispersion of the transmission fibre is 17 ps/nm/km, while the dispersion of the DCF is -200 ps/nm/km, how many meters of DCF would you need at each amplifier location to eliminate the average dispersion at each span? (use the conversion that 100GHz = 0.8 nm) <br>**

10 amplifiers total which are 60km apart.<br>

	1. Compute the Dispersion associated with one span - one portion of 60km
	Spans are 60km long.
	Fibre dispersion is 17ps/nm/km
	17*60=1020ps/nm dispersion at each span.
	
	2. Calculate length of DCF needed at each span
	-200ps/nm/km
	1020/200 = 5.1km
	
5.1km of DCF is needed per span
